**Twitter Sentiment Framework**

Sentiment analysis is an application of Natural Language Processing (a branch of Artificial Intelligence) that revolves around detecting the sentiment of text. A common dimension for measuring sentiment uses labels positive, negative and neutral; there are many other possibilities as well (i.e. how strong the sentiment is, how active vs subdued it is, etc). Social media is a particularly popular arena for deploying sentiment analysis: companies want to know how their products are being perceived, etc. Consequently, there are many organisations offering apps or services for building them.

The earliest and simplest techniques for carrying out sentiment analysis (although this type of approach is still in fact widely used) just carried out keyword matching in the text, based on words from a source of words that have known sentiment (a sentiment lexicon). Often, these lexicons don’t have extensive coverage: there are many words with sentiment that aren’t included in them, particularly in the case of social media text, where misspellings, abbreviations and slang are common. Consequently, there are other approaches to the task: there’s a large class of machine learning3 techniques applied, as well as other techniques like label propagation, where sentiment labels are propagated through a graph structure.

In this project, I have worked with a set of real tweets collected by researchers who developed one of the first approaches to sentiment analysis of tweets, and constructed my own tweet sentiment analyser. Early stages of the project only employ a keyword-based approach, building up to a simple version of label propagation later.
